readme.md, before:

# Project Compilers 2020
## Mano Marichal & Joren Van Borm

### Overview

We hebben alle mandatory dingen afgewerkt. Onderaan de readme kan je een overzicht zien van wat we allemaal gemaakt hebben.
Voor elk feature hebben we een testfile, in test_IO/working_examples Je kan voor al deze de llvm ir en ast dot / png files genereren met run.py.
clean.py Verwijdert alle gegenereerde files uit test_IO/working_examples. 

### Installing and running:
(assuming a linux-based system)

#### Clone git repository   
    
    git clone https://github.com/shano19/compilers-2020.git
 
#### Install **pip** 

    sudo apt-get install python3-pip

#### Install **virtualenv** using pip3

    sudo pip3 install virtualenv 

#### Create virtual environment 

    virtualenv venv 
  
#### Active virtual environment:    
    
    source venv/bin/activate 

to deactivate it later, use the `deactivate` command

#### Install prerequisites:    
    
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt    
    
#### Run the test files  
    
    python3 run.py
 
#### Compiling a file  
    
    python3 ./src/main.py <filename> 

you can add the `-cf flag` after `<filename>` to enable constant folding
    
### Status:
#### Project 1)
- 2 Expression Parser
    - 2.1 Grammar:
      -  [x] (mandatory) Binary operations + , - , * , and /
      -  [x] (mandatory) Binary operations > , < , and ==
      -  [x] (mandatory) Unary operators + and -
      -  [x] (mandatory) Brackets to overwrite the order of operations
      -  [x] (optional) Binary operator %
      -  [x] (optional) Comparison operators >= , <= , and !=
      -  [x] (optional) Logical operators && , || , and !
    - [x] 2.2 (mandatory) AST
    - [x] 2.3 (mandatory) Visualization
    - [x] 2.4 (optional) Constant folding

#### Project 2)
- 1 Variables:
    - 1.1 Grammar:
        - (mandatory) Types
            - [x] char
            - [x] int
            - [x] float
            - [x] pointer
        - (mandatory) Reserved words
            - [x] const
            - [x] int
            - [x] float
            - [x] char
        - [x] (mandatory) Variables
        - [x] (mandatory) Pointer Operations * and &
        - [x] (optional) Identifier Operations ++ and --
        - [x] (optional) Implicit Conversions (+ warnings for non-promotions)
- [x] 1.2 (mandatory) AST
- [x] 1.3 (mandatory) Visualization
- [ ] 1.4 (optional) Constant Propagation
- 2 Error Analysis
    - [x] 2.1 Syntax Errors
    - [x] 2.2 Semantic Errors
        - [x] undefined & uninitialised variables
        - [x] redeclared & redefined variables
        - [x] operations on incompatible types (dereferencing a non-ptr type)
        - [x] Assignment to an rvalue
        - [x] Assignment to a const variable
        - [x] Symbol table (scoped)

#### Project 3)
- 1 Variables
    - 1.1 Grammar
        - [x] (mandatory) Comments
        - [x] (mandatory) printf() for char, int & float (without metastring)
    - [x] 1.2 (mandatory) AST
    - [x] 1.3 (mandatory) Visualization
    - 2 (mandatory) LLVM
      - [x] (mandatory) Binary operations + , - , * , and /
      - [x] (mandatory) Binary operations > , < , and ==
      - [x] (mandatory) Unary operators + and -
      - [x] (mandatory) Brackets to overwrite the order of operations
      - [x] (mandatory) Printf
      - [x] (mandatory) Pointers + pointer operators
      - [x] (optional) Identifier Operations ++ and --
      - [x] (optional) Comments for each machine instruction
      - [x] (optional) Comparison operators >= , <= , and !=
      - [x] (optional) Logical operators && , || , and !
      - [x] (optional) Conversions (bool <> char <> int <> float)
      - [ ] (optional) Binary operator %
      - [ ] (optional) Include comments in compiled LLVM

Commit message:

added error detection test files to run.py script

readme.md, after:

# Project Compilers 2020
## Mano Marichal & Joren Van Borm

### Overview

We hebben alle mandatory dingen afgewerkt. Onderaan de readme kan je een overzicht zien van wat we allemaal gemaakt hebben.
Voor elk feature hebben we een testfile, in test_IO/working_examples Je kan voor al deze de llvm ir en ast dot / png files genereren met run.py.
clean.py Verwijdert alle gegenereerde files uit test_IO/working_examples. 

### Installing and running:
(assuming a linux-based system)

#### Clone git repository   
    
    git clone https://github.com/shano19/compilers-2020.git
 
#### Install **pip** 

    sudo apt-get install python3-pip

#### Install **virtualenv** using pip3

    sudo pip3 install virtualenv 

#### Create virtual environment 

    virtualenv venv 
  
#### Active virtual environment:    
    
    source venv/bin/activate 

When you're done using the compiler, deactivate it again using the `deactivate` command. (or just quit the terminal)

#### Install prerequisites:    
    
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt    
    
#### Run the test files  
    
    python3 run.py
    
Some of these test files will print to stderr when warnings (or errors) are encountered. Some of them won't compile at all because they're testing error detection.
 
#### Compiling a file  
    
    python3 ./src/main.py <filename> 

The `-cf` flag can be added after `<filename>` to enable constant folding.
    
### Status:
#### Project 1)
- 2 Expression Parser
    - 2.1 Grammar:
      -  [x] (mandatory) Binary operations + , - , * , and /
      -  [x] (mandatory) Binary operations > , < , and ==
      -  [x] (mandatory) Unary operators + and -
      -  [x] (mandatory) Brackets to overwrite the order of operations
      -  [x] (optional) Binary operator %
      -  [x] (optional) Comparison operators >= , <= , and !=
      -  [x] (optional) Logical operators && , || , and !
    - [x] 2.2 (mandatory) AST
    - [x] 2.3 (mandatory) Visualization
    - [x] 2.4 (optional) Constant folding

#### Project 2)
- 1 Variables:
    - 1.1 Grammar:
        - (mandatory) Types
            - [x] char
            - [x] int
            - [x] float
            - [x] pointer
        - (mandatory) Reserved words
            - [x] const
            - [x] int
            - [x] float
            - [x] char
        - [x] (mandatory) Variables
        - [x] (mandatory) Pointer Operations * and &
        - [x] (optional) Identifier Operations ++ and --
        - [x] (optional) Implicit Conversions (+ warnings for non-promotions)
- [x] 1.2 (mandatory) AST
- [x] 1.3 (mandatory) Visualization
- [ ] 1.4 (optional) Constant Propagation
- 2 Error Analysis
    - [x] 2.1 Syntax Errors
    - [x] 2.2 Semantic Errors
        - [x] undefined & uninitialised variables
        - [x] redeclared & redefined variables
        - [x] operations on incompatible types (dereferencing a non-ptr type)
        - [x] Assignment to an rvalue
        - [x] Assignment to a const variable
        - [x] Symbol table (scoped)

#### Project 3)
- 1 Variables
    - 1.1 Grammar
        - [x] (mandatory) Comments
        - [x] (mandatory) printf() for char, int & float (without metastring)
    - [x] 1.2 (mandatory) AST
    - [x] 1.3 (mandatory) Visualization
    - 2 (mandatory) LLVM
      - [x] (mandatory) Binary operations + , - , * , and /
      - [x] (mandatory) Binary operations > , < , and ==
      - [x] (mandatory) Unary operators + and -
      - [x] (mandatory) Brackets to overwrite the order of operations
      - [x] (mandatory) Printf
      - [x] (mandatory) Pointers + pointer operators
      - [x] (optional) Identifier Operations ++ and --
      - [x] (optional) Comments for each machine instruction
      - [x] (optional) Comparison operators >= , <= , and !=
      - [x] (optional) Logical operators && , || , and !
      - [x] (optional) Conversions (bool <> char <> int <> float)
      - [ ] (optional) Binary operator %
      - [ ] (optional) Include comments in compiled LLVM
